README.md, before:

mine-with-docker
=================

This repository contains Docker images that lets you get from zero to mining in around 5 minutes on any Linux host anywhere.

CPU mining can be profitable using algorithmns like: Cryptonight, Hodl or Equihash. Find out more about [profitability here](https://www.nicehash.com/profitability-calculator).

Disclaimer: this software is provided with no warranty. Use at your own risk. If you plan to mine on a cloud check the terms and conditions before you start. The same applies if you are using private equipment or an on-site datacenter for mining. Mining will use all the CPU resources available on the machine.

## Pre-reqs

We need to install Docker so that we can run a container. The container holds all the mining code and dependencies as a single immutable image.

* Install Docker:

```
curl -sL get.docker.com | sh
```

> If not running as a root user then you should look at the final message about using `usermod` to grant access to Docker to your user account.

## Start mining

Create a service and enter your bitcoin wallet ID:

```
docker service rm miner
docker service create --name miner alexellis2/cpu-opt:2018-1-2 ./cpuminer \
  -a cryptonight \
  -o stratum+tcp://cryptonight.eu.nicehash.com:3355 \
  -u 1M2KME8VBx24RsU3Ed2dEkF9EFghn3jR2o.cloud1
```

* Replace "1M2KME8VBx24RsU3Ed2dEkF9EFghn3jR2o" with your wallet ID and "cloud1" with the name of the host you're mining on if you want to track it.

* If you live outside the EU then find your [nearest Stratum proxy server from Nicehash](https://www.nicehash.com/asic-mining) and replace the `eu` URL with your nearest location.

## Stop/pause mining

To pause mining type in `docker service scale miner=0`. To resume set the replicas to `1`.

To completely stop mining use `docker service rm miner`

## Rebuild the image

This is optional. If you need to rebuild the Docker image for updates or for a different CPU architecture:

```
git clone https://github.com/alexellis/mine-with-docker
cd mine-with-docker/cpu-opt
docker build -t cpu-opt:latest .
```

## Donate

Donate via BTC: 1M2KME8VBx24RsU3Ed2dEkF9EFghn3jR2o
Donate via ETH: 0x0D0c7108AD4180486E03B4Fc44AD794a209eCb37

Copyright Alex Ellis 2017

Commit message:

Elaborate on how it works

README.md, after:

mine-with-docker
=================

This repository contains Docker images that lets you get from zero to mining in around 5 minutes on any Linux host anywhere.

CPU mining can be profitable using algorithmns like: Cryptonight, Hodl or Equihash. Find out more about [profitability here](https://www.nicehash.com/profitability-calculator).

Disclaimer: this software is provided with no warranty. Use at your own risk. If you plan to mine on a cloud check the terms and conditions before you start. The same applies if you are using private equipment or an on-site datacenter for mining. Mining will use all the CPU resources available on the machine.

## How does it work?

Instead of mining BitCoin or other currencies on your own this software works by connecting your CPU / GPU to a mining pool. You get paid for the shares your computer makes towards solving a block. The NiceHash mining pool used int his example lets you mine using two dozen different algorithms and can tell you what is most profitable for your hardware.

* What should I mine?

At time of writing a quad-core Intel CPU would be best mining Cryptonight, Hodl or Equihash.

* What is the barrier to entry?

There barrier to entry is super low - you just have to have a Linux system connected to the Internet where you can install Docker. That's it. You then run the image I've already built and start accruing Bitcoins.

* Is it profitable?

It can be profitable depending on your hardware and electricity costs. If you have a single node and can get paid 2-5USD / day for instance then that's going to equate to 60-150 USD / month. Now if you actually have 20 or 50 nodes you can apply a multiplier.

> Tip: If you have credits with a cloud provider or are using the Spot Instance market then this could be a way for you to generate some coin at a low cost.

## Pre-reqs

We need to install Docker so that we can run a container. The container holds all the mining code and dependencies as a single immutable image.

* Install Docker:

```
curl -sL get.docker.com | sh
```

> If not running as a root user then you should look at the final message about using `usermod` to grant access to Docker to your user account.

## Start mining

Create a service and enter your bitcoin wallet ID:

```
docker service rm miner
docker service create --name miner alexellis2/cpu-opt:2018-1-2 ./cpuminer \
  -a cryptonight \
  -o stratum+tcp://cryptonight.eu.nicehash.com:3355 \
  -u 1M2KME8VBx24RsU3Ed2dEkF9EFghn3jR2o.cloud1
```

* Replace "1M2KME8VBx24RsU3Ed2dEkF9EFghn3jR2o" with your wallet ID and "cloud1" with the name of the host you're mining on if you want to track it.

* If you live outside the EU then find your [nearest Stratum proxy server from Nicehash](https://www.nicehash.com/asic-mining) and replace the `eu` URL with your nearest location.

## Stop/pause mining

To pause mining type in `docker service scale miner=0`. To resume set the replicas to `1`.

To completely stop mining use `docker service rm miner`

## Rebuild the image

This is optional. If you need to rebuild the Docker image for updates or for a different CPU architecture:

```
git clone https://github.com/alexellis/mine-with-docker
cd mine-with-docker/cpu-opt
docker build -t cpu-opt:latest .
```

## Donate

Donate via BTC: 1M2KME8VBx24RsU3Ed2dEkF9EFghn3jR2o

Donate via ETH: 0x0D0c7108AD4180486E03B4Fc44AD794a209eCb37

Copyright Alex Ellis 2017
